# Creating a Virtual Machine on Google Compute Engine

In order to create a VM on Google Compute Engine one must have a
Google Account. You can sign up for one
[here](https://accounts.google.com/SignUp?hl=en).

Next, you will need to
[sign up for Google Cloud Platform](https://console.cloud.google.com/freetrial?authuser=1&page=0). As
of this writing, Google is offering a free trial that includes $300
worth of credits that expire one year from signup, but you will need
to provide billing information (either a credit card or bank details)
to sign up.

When you sign up, Google will create a project for you called *My
First Project* with an autogenerated project ID. The page after the
weclome screen contains links to a number of easy to follow tutorials
and *Quick Starts* that will guide you through the steps required to
start various Google Cloud Platform services in the console.

## Automated Creation of a VM on Ubuntu 16.04

The following instructions are adapted from
[here](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstart-debian-ubuntu?authuser=1).

You will need to have *curl* installed. You can install it with:

```
sudo apt install curl
```


First you need to install the gcloud SDK: 

``` 
export CLOUD_SDK_REPO="cloud-sdk-$(lsb_release -c -s)" 
echo "deb http://packages.cloud.google.com/apt $CLOUD_SDK_REPO main" \
    | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/google-cloud-sdk.list 
curl https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg \
    | sudo apt-key add - 
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install google-cloud-sdk 
```

Next, initialize the SDK with: 

``` 
gcloud init 
``` 

This will open a web browser and prompt you to log in to your account. 
If you don't have a browser installed or are doing a headless setup, 
you can use the following command instead: 

``` 
gcloud init --console-only 
```

This will display a link in your terminal that you must copy and paste
into a browser. The browser will return a verification code for you to
type into the terminal.

After you have logged in, the terminal will prompt you to select a
project or create a new one. Project IDs must be unique. If you pick
one like *test-vm* it will fail. If you start again with: 

```
gcloud init 
``` 

You will be prompted to pick up where you left off or
create a new configuration.

After selecting a project, you will be asked if you want to configure
a default Compute Region and Zone. If you do not, configuration is
complete.

## Create an Instance

You can create an instance with the following command (where <name of
instance> is the name of the instance you want to create): 

```
gcloud compute instances create <name of instance> 
```

If you have not set up a default Compute Region and Zone, you will be
prompted to select one from the 45 possibly zones, so it is probably
better to either set a default or decide which zone you want the
instance in before you type the command. For example, if you want to
create an instance called *foo* in *us-central1-a* (which is in Iowa),
you would enter:

```
gcloud compute instances create foo --zone=us-central-1a 
```

This will create an *n1-standard-1* instance with one CPU and 3.75 GB of
memory, which costs about $25 a month. If you leave it running, you
will burn through a lot of your free credits for nothing. You can stop
it with:

``` 
gcloud compute instances stop foo --zone=us-central-1a 
```

A full list of all the options for the **gcloud compute instances**
command is
[here](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/).

\TODO Add reference section and convert inline links to proper references.
