Operating Systems
=================

In this chapter we will provide information in how to install additional
software that may not be provided with the default operating system.

### Operatiing Systems

You can run different operating systems on the PI, this includes
rasbian, NOOBS, Dexter (for Grove PI), or even Windows 10.

We would like to get feedback on what OS is best suited for which task.

#### Rasbian

provide a mini tutorial

#### NOOBS

provide a mini tutorial

#### Dexter

provide a mini tutorial

#### Other Linux

provide a mini tutorial

#### Windows IOT

Previously we played a bit with Windows on Raspberry, but it was not
very well supported. This may have changed by now. Your task will be to
evaluate its feature and contrast it to other OSes.

There seems to be support on developing PI application on WIndows 10
itself, but as we do not have windows machines, we have not tried this.
You could escplore and update us.

provide a mini tutorial

PI Software
===========

Editors
-------

### emacs

provide a mini tutorial

### vim

provide a mini tutorial

### gedit

provide a mini tutorial

### ssh

The most iomportant program for us. describe ho to enable without GUI

point to our other ssh section.

make sure to describe how to not copy private keys !!! and instead use
ssh keygen on each machine, gather all pub keys and distribute

write a cloudmesh command for this (may already exist)

provide a mini tutorial

Python 3
--------

provide a mini tutorial

sudo apt-get install python3

update to current version and try out. measure time it thakes to do
that, it may take a long time use time commands before and after

make sure you use alst install

*
<https://liftcodeplay.com/2017/06/30/how-to-install-python-3-6-on-raspbian-linux-for-raspberry-pi/>

can we remove the source after install to safe space?

Python IDLE
-----------

Click Menu \> Programming \> Python 3 (IDLE), and you'll get a new
window called 'Python 3.4.2 Shell:'. This Shell works just like Python
on the command line. Enter print("Hello World") to see the message.

provide a mini tutorial

Docker
------

see go, maybe there are other better resources.

provide a mini tutorial

Go
--

<https://blog.alexellis.io/golang-docker-rpi/>

provide a mini tutorial

provide a mini tutorial

### Eclipse

provide a mini tutorial

### Adafruit Web IDE

* <https://learn.adafruit.com/webide/overview>

provide a mini tutorial

### Coder

* <https://googlecreativelab.github.io/coder/>

provide a mini tutorial

Computing
=========

Numpy
-----

Refer to other section in book and describe what is different

provide a mini tutorial

Scipy
-----

Refer to other section in book and describe what is different

provide a mini tutorial

Image Processing
----------------

Refer to other section in book and describe what is different

provide a mini tutorial

DHCP Server
-----------

* <http://www.noveldevices.co.uk/rp-dhcp-server>

Gregor's Notes
--------------

THis section contains some unordered notes by Gregor that you may want
to look at and integrate into proper sections:

### editor

find an editor that is installed and can be used on commandline nano,
vi, other?

### hostname

The hostname is stored in `/etc/hostname`. Edit the file and change it
to a name such as green00, green01, green02, green03, green04, green05.
Be consitant with the names. The 00 host shoudl be the top most host in
the cluster.

edit

    nano /etc/hostname

after you edited the hostname

    sudo /etc/init.d/hostname.sh start

Ideally we want to find out how to write the hostname after we burn the
SDcard on the laptop that does the burning

develop a python script to do that

### Gather the mac addresses

Is there a better way?

    /sys/class/net/<interface-name>/address

    cat /sys/class/net/eth0/address
    cat /sys/class/net/wlan0/address
    ifconfig eth0

develop a python script to do that

### Enable sshd

Not tested

    sudo mv /boot/boot_enable_ssh.rc /boot/boot.rc
    sudo reboot

* <http://www.noveldevices.co.uk/rp-ssh>

NOt sure if this is needed:

" You may find that you can connect to your Pi with SSH but the session
hangs after a successful logon. This is usually caused because of a
network QoS mismatch that affects certain switches and routers but you
can correct this by editing the two files

    /etc/ssh/ssh_config
    /etc/ssh/sshd_config

and adding

    IPQoS 0x00

to each file as the last record. " develop a a python script to do that

### Wireless

Do not use iu secure. Do not leave your passwd on the pi as insecure.

    sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces

    auto wlan0
    allow-hotplug wlan0
    iface wlan0 inet dhcp
    wpa-ssid "your-WLAN-SSID"
    wpa-psk "your-WLAN-password"

develop a pthon script to do that

### Update when on network

for now dont put pi on network so do this once we figure out a better
way

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install emacs

### USB stick

    cat /var/log/messages

find sda\*

Make sure to find the right name.

    sudo fdisk /dev/<device-name>
    sudo mkfs -t vfat /dev/<device-name>
    mkdir ~/<mount-point>
    sudo mount /dev/<device-name> ~/<mount-point>

### Locale

set locale to US so you can use keyboard

    raspi-config 

or

    sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales

develop a python script to do that

### DHCP server on 00

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install isc-dhcp-server
    sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces

Change it to

    iface eth0 inet static
    address <the-IP-address-of-your-Pi-that-will-be-the-DHCP-server>
    netmask <the-subnet-mask-of-your-LAN>
    gateway <the-IP-address-of-your-LAN-gateway>
    sudo nano /etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf

uncomment the info so the server can start

    subnet <starting-IP-address-of-your-network> netmask <starting-IP-address-of-your-network> {

         range <first-IP-address-of-your-DHCP-address-range> <last-IP-address-of-your-DHCP-address-range>;

         option routers <the-IP-address-of-your-gateway-or-router>;

         option broadcast-address <the-broadcast-IP-address-for-your-network>;

    }

edit /etc/default/isc-dhcp-server

    DHCPD_CONF=/etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf
    DHCPD_PID=/var/run/dhcpd.pid
    INTERFACES="eth0"

    sudo service isc-dhcp-server restart

### Temperature

    cat /sys/class/thermal/thermal_zone0/temp

### graphana

could be helpful to monitor cluster/clusters

* <https://github.com/grafana/grafana>

* <https://github.com/weaveworks/grafanalib>

there are many more, just search. we have not tested them example with
yaml

* <https://github.com/jakubplichta/grafana-dashboard-builder>

light scheme

in `/etc/grafana/grafana.ini` uncomment line and set

    default_theme = light 
