Getting Started
===============

We describe how you can get access to chameleon cloud under the
assumption that you are a student or a researcher that joins an existing
project on Chameleon cloud. You will need to follow the following steps:

Step 1: Create a Chameleon account
----------------------------------

To get started using Chameleon you will need to [create a user
account](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/register).

You will be asked to agree to the [Chameleon terms and
conditions](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/terms/view/chameleon-user-terms/)
which, among others, ask you to acknowledge the use of Chameleon in your
publications.

Acknowledgement of support from the Chameleon project and the National
Science Foundation should appear in any publication of material, whether
copyrighted or not, that describes work which benefited from access to
Chameleon cyberinfrastructure resources. The suggested acknowledgement
is as follows: "Results presented in this paper were obtained using the
Chameleon testbed supported by the National Science Foundation".

As part of creating an account you may request PI status. However you
are not a PI as you will be joining a project.

Step 2: Create or join a project
--------------------------------

To use Chameleon, you will need to be associated with a
[project](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-faq/#toc-how-do-i-apply-for-a-chameleon-project-)
that is assigned an
[allocation](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-faq/#toc-what-are-the-project-allocation-sizes-and-limits-).
This means that you either need to

1.  **[apply for a new
    project](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/projects/new/)** or

2.  **[ask the PI of an existing Chameleon project to add
    you](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-faq/#toc-my-pi-professor-colleague-already-has-a-chameleon-project-how-do-i-get-added-as-a-user-on-the-project-).**

A project is headed by a project PI, typically [a faculty member or
researcher scientist at a scientific
institution](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-faq/#toc-who-is-eligible-to-be-chameleon-pi-and-how-do-i-make-sure-that-my-pi-status-is-reflected-in-my-profile-).
If you are a student we recommend that you ask your professor to work
with you on creating a project. Please note that you must not create a
project by yourself and that you indeed need to work with your
professor.

In case you need to do a project application typically consists of about
one paragraph description of the intended research and takes one
business day to process.

Enrolling you into an existing research or class project depends on the
time availability of the project lead or professor of your class. It is
important that you communicate your chameleon cloud account name to the
project lead so they can easily add you. Make sure you really give them
only your chameleon account name and potentially your organizational
e-mail, Firstname, and Lastname so they can check you are eligible to
get access.

Indiana University students that take the e516 and e616 classes will
have to fill out a google form in which they communicate the chameleon
cloud name. You can already apply for an account name, but do not apply
for a project. If you nevertheless apply for a project, we will hear
from the administrators and you will receive a point deduction.

Step 3: Start using Chameleon!
------------------------------

Now that you have enrolled and once you are added to the project by your
project lead you can start using chameleon cloud. However be reminded
that you ought to shut down the resources/VMs whenever they are not in
use to avoid unnecessary charging. Remember the project has imited time
on chameleon and any unused time will be charged against the project.

Chameleon provides two types of resources with links to their respective
users guides below:

**[Bare Metal User
Guide](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/bare-metal-user-guide-old/)**
will tell you how to use Chameleon bare metal resources which provide
strong isolation and allow you maximum control (reboot to new operating
system, reboot the kernel, etc.)

**[OpenStack KVM User
Guide](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-guides/openstack-kvm-user-guide/)**
will tell you how to get started with Chameleon's OpenStack KVM cloud
which is a multi-tenant environment providing weak performance
isolation.

If you have any questions or encounter any problems, you can check out
our [User FAQ](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/docs/user-faq/), or
[submit a ticket](https://www.chameleoncloud.org/user/help/).

As part of the classes you will need to first pass a cloud *security*
drivers licence test. The test is designed so that you think about
gaining access to a VM securely and how to properly secure the VM. Once
passed, access is typically provided by midterm time. You are not
allowed to constantly run VM's and must shut them down if not in use.
You will get point deductions if we detect you do not obey by this rule.
We have access to log files about your VM usage.
