# Volumes

> Note: In our previous effort Volumes were simply chapters in a big
> handboog. Other than Vol. 6, which are at this time 3 separate volumes
> of about 700 pages total.


Cloud Computing and Big Data aere recent trends that require
comprehensive overview but also detailed knowledge about technologies
and applications. Over the last two years we have collected material
as part of our educational activities which go well above 2000 pages
in content. Some of the material however is only available in draft
form while other material is dedicated to class support.

We will leverage from this experience and create the following
handbooks that are all maintained online as to be able to adapt them
quickly. At times we intend to provide snapshots and allow for
publication with a publisher (we need to explore this further as I
think there is real value to manage this online in the community).

The list of volume and their content include

## Vol 1. Cloud Computing Handbook (all classes)

This volume contains chapters that introduce the reader to the
general topic of cloud computing. Chapters include

   * Introduction
   * Cloud Architecture
   * IaaS
   * PaaS
   * SaaS
   * Current trends

## Vol 2. Big Data Applications (523, 524)

This volume contains chapters that introduce the reader to
applications found in big data. The chapters include the basic
chapters part of i523 and i524 (e.g. Geoffreys section)

   * Introduction
   * Kaleidoscope
   * Sport
   * Healthcare
   * Physics
   * ...
   * many more

## Vol 3. Cloud Technologies (523, 524)

> WE WORK ON THIS TO PREPARE FOR COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT

This volume contains a comprehensive description of many cloud
technologies that are often referred to used to build cloud
architectures. This list is curated by the students of all cloud
classes and each student is required to contribute to this volume.
Typically we ask that about 10 technologies will be added or
improved per student. It may be a good idea for those with out a
project to add 20-30 more technologies to not reduce the class grade
by a quater grade. This would be equivalent to a project.

We have about 640 but we think that 350 need to be redone due to
possible violation of quoting while just copying the text as it was
not detected or corrected by some TAs. We dont know if its really 350,
but we need to check them. Students can do that.

The ideal length of the technologies should be between 150 - 450 words.

## Vol 3. Cloud Clusters and DevOps (524, 516, 616)

In this volume we focus on deploying cloud clusters on a variety of
platforms including containers virtual machines and possibly also
HPC. Chapters include

  * virtual machines
  * containers
  * management tools (vagrant, openstack, cloudmesh
  * hadoop
  * spark
  * openwhisk
  * openfass
  * Slurm
  * Kubernetes
  * Docker Swarm
  ...

## Vol 4. Cloud IaaS

The classical things with python programming examples. While the
previous volume only talks about deployment, this volume talks about
usage and programability. Naturally we could merge the volumes or
split them up differently. As we manage the chapters in the same
dir and mix and match is possible.

  * AWS
  * Azure
  * Google
  * OpenStack
  * Kubernetes
  * Docker Swarm
  
## Vol 5. Big Data Analytics

This volume introduces big data analytics technologies


## Vol 6.a-x. Cloud and Big Data Student projects

Each year we will assemble a proceedings from selected and completed
student projects. This volume is written at this time in latex as we
observed when we have students using latex the quality of the
contribution is higher than with word or markdown. It is an
interesting observation in itself, but we can no longer provide any
hard data as we have all students do now latex. all other formats
writing papers are just too time consuming. There is the possibility
by the way to do the paper in markdown and include in latex, we may
explore this and provide an example.


## Vol 7. Class Handbook - Policies

> DONE: but its all classes in one

This volume is at present containing all assignments for all classes
and includes only the similar portions. It could be split up in
separate volumes vor each class, but may not be as easy to manage due
to duplication of content. It may be easier to list the differences.

We will explore to find out if we could script this and have

If statements in the document that are relevant for a particular
class. Though this existed in latex, markdown does not have this.
splitting it up in too many small parts may not be helpful as it is
than too complicated to assemble this information and we may get lost
or forget things to include. We need to look at this

## Vol 8. Big Data Reference Architecture

: This is not the document we submit to nits, but a volume that
  contains all projects related to the NIST project. We have a
  substantial number, but not all will be useful for the nist
  document. This document will help coordinating the community and
  select projects that will influence the Vol 8 in NIST. We may not
  make this one vol 8 in this series in order to avoid naming
  conflicts and confusion.


## Vol 9. Scientific Writing

: Volume describing who to use Latex for Scientific Writing

## Other volumes

we have about 500 more pages on write ups about specific technologies
all in latex that could be useful for contributions into other
volumes. We want to more carefully evaluate them.
