Course Policies
===============

We describe briefly how we manage different classes and how to interact
with us.

Communication and Use of CANVAS
-------------------------------

In the past we have found numerous limitations to CANVAS that makes it
not possible for us to use it effectively for our classes. Such
limitations were not overcome even after consulting our professional
course support team at IU although we spend days and weeks trying to fix
the issues we encountered. From the professional staff we have been
given the advice to avoid using CANVAS and use a better approach that we
outline as follows:

-   we use CANVAS notifications only for the initial class setup and
    notify you how to gain access to piazza where all class discussions
    take place;

-   any discussion about grades is however only done in CANVAS;

-   we will DELETE all e-mail send to us on personal or IU e-mail
    addresses. All discussions need to take place either in private or
    in public posts on piazza (other than grades which need to be send
    via CANVAS as the previous point explained);

-   TA's are strictly forbidden to answer any e-mail that is not send
    via piazza. Their answers will only be posted within piazza;

-   any post to piazza to a TA must be not done to the individual TA but
    to *instructors*;

-   any post from piazza by a TA must be not done to the individual
    student only, but also must include *instructors*;

Managing Your Own Calendar
--------------------------

From time to time we get the question from a very small number of
students why we are not using or uploading the assignment deadlines and
the assignment descriptions to CANVAS. The reason for this is manyfold.
First, our class has different dealines for different students within
the same class. This is not supported by CANVAS and if we would use
CANVAS leads to confusion and clearly shows the limitation of CANVAS.
Second, we are teaching cloud computing. CANVAS is not a tool that you
likely will use after graduating. Thus we are providing you the ability
to explore industry standard tools such as github to maintaining your
own tasks and deadlines, while for example using github issues (see the
section about github). We highly recommend that you explore this as part
of this class and you will see that managing the assignments in github
is **superior** to CANVAS. Naturally you can not make that assessment if
you are not trying it. Thus we like you to do so and it is part of any
assignment in your class to use github issues to manage your assignments
for this class.

However, if you still want to manage your tasks in CANVAS, you can do
so. CANVAS allows you to create custom events, so if you see an
assignment in piazza or the handbook, you are more than welcome to add
that task yourself to your own CANVAS tasks. As we have only a very
small number of assignments this will not pase a problem either for
graduate or undergraduate. Being able to organize your deadlines and
assignment with industry accepted tools is part of your general learning
experience at IU.

Obviously, this makes it also possible to use any other task or calendar
system that you may use such as google calendar, jira, microsoft
project, and others.

As you can see through this strategy we provide the most flexible system
for any student of the class, while giving each student the ability to
chose the system they prefer for managing their assignment deadlines. It
is obvious that this strategy is superior to CANVAS as it is much more
general.

Online and Office Hours
-----------------------

To support you we have established an open policy of sharing information
not only as part of the class material, but also as part of how we
conduct support. We establish the following principals:

-   in case of doubt how to communicate address this early in class and
    attend online hours;

-   all office hours if not of personal nature are open office hours
    meaning that any student in class can be joined by other students of
    the class and all meeting times are posted publicly.

-   it is in your responsibility to attend in person classes and online
    hours as we found that those that do get better grades. For
    residential students participation in the residential classes is
    mandatory due to the same reason.

-   instructors of this class will attempt within reason to find
    suitable times for you to attend an online hour in case you are an
    online student. Residential students can attend the class on Friday
    and ask any question.

### Office Hour Calendar

Online Students:

:   Online hours are prioritized for online students, residential
    students should attend the residential meetings.

Residential Students:

:   Residential students participate in the official meeting times. If
    additional times are required, they have to be done by appointment.
    Office hours will be announced publicly. All technical office hours
    are public and can be attended by any student.

    Online hours are not an excuse not to come to the residential class.

    However Residential students can in addition to the residential
    class use the online student meeting times. However, in that case
    online students will be served first. It is probably good to check
    into the zoom meeting and identify if the TA has time. They will be
    in zoom.

We suggest that you let the TA's know in piazza before you come, in
order to make sure they are at the office. The online support hours are
as follows:

-   Mon 6:00pm-7:00pm, 7:00pm-8:00pm, Gregor

-   Tue 7:00pm-8:00pm, Tyler, Vibhatha, Hyungro, Bo or Miao

-   Wed 7:00pm-8:00pm Bo

-   Thu 8:00pm-9:00pm Hyungro

-   Fri 7:00pm-8:00pm Miao

-   Sat 10:00am-11:00am Vibhatha

-   Sun 10:00am-11:00am Tyler

If a meeting is needed with Gregor, this is done upon appointment
Tue-Thu 10am - 2:30pm. However, TA's will figure out if a meeting is
needed. Please prepare your technical questions ahead of time, and place
them in Piazza first. TA's and the class will try to answer them if
possible

The link for joining the meeting on Zoom is posted in Piazza.

* <TBD>
For more up-to-date details, refer to Piazza.

Class Material
--------------

As the class material will evolve during the semester it is obvious that
some content will be improved and material will be added. This benefits
all classes. To stay up to date, please, revisit this document on weekly
basis. This is obvious, as we will adapt content based on your feedback.

The requirement of the classes to become an expert in cloud and/or Big
Data applications and technologies stays unchanged.

HID
---

You will be assigned an hid (Homework IDentifier) which allows us to
easily communicate with you and doe allow us to not use your university
ID to communicate with you.

You will receive the HID within the first week of the semester by the
TA's.

Notebook
--------

All students are required to maintain a *class notebook* in github in
which they summarize their weekly activities for this course in bullet
form. This includes a self maintained list of which lecture material
they viewed.

The notebook is maintained in the class github.com in your hid project
folder. It is a file called notebook.md that uses markdown as format.
While using md, you can either edit it locally and upload to github, or
directly edit it via the git hub Web editor. Notebooks are expected to
be set up as soon as the git repository was created.

You will be responsible to set up and maintaining the notebook.md and
update it accordingly. We suggest that you prepare sections such as:
Logistic, Theory, Practice, Writing and put in bullet form what you have
done into these sections during the week. We can see from the github
logs when you changed the notbook.md file to monitor progress. The
management of the notebook will be part of your discussion grade.

The format of the notebook is very simple markdown format and must
follow these rules:

-   use headings with the \# character and have a space after the \#

-   use bullets in each topic.

-   each bullet **must** have an individual date that is of the form
    yyyy/mm/dd. Please do not lump bullet points under s single date.
    Have each bullet point its own date

-   if you have done the activity in a period than add the second date
    to it yyyy/mm/dd - yyyy/mm/dd

-   If you refer to section numbers in your notebook, please aslo add
    the section title as the section numbers may change in case we need
    to add content

Please examine carefully the sample note book is available at:

* <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bigdata-i523/sample-hid000/master/notebook.md>
This will render in git as:

* <https://github.com/bigdata-i523/sample-hid000/blob/master/notebook.md>
The notebook.md is not a blog and should only contain a summary of what
you have done.

Blog
----

Naturally you can maintain your own blog, but it is optional. If you
like to maintain your own blog, you can create yourself also a blog.md
file. However do not include sensitive information in there. A blog is
not a replacement for the notebook. The blog will not be used for
grading. If something does not go so well, do not focus on the negative
things, but focus on how that experience can be overcome and how you
turn it to a positive experience.

Calendar I524, E616, E516
-------------------------

This class is a full term class of 16 weeks.

The semester calendar is posted at

* <http://registrar.indiana.edu/official-calendar/official-calendar-spring.shtml>
The class beginns Mon, Jan 8th and ends Fri, May 4th

Incomplete
----------

Incompletes have to be explicitly requested in piazza through a private
mail to *instructors*. All incompletes have to be filed by May 1st.

Incomplete's will receive a fractional Grade reduction: A will become
A-, A- will become B+, and so forth. There is enough time in the course
to complete all assignments without getting an incomplete.

Why do we have such a policy? As we teach state-of-the-art software this
software is subject to change, not only within the course, but also
after the course. As we may offer some services and only have access to
the TA's during the semester it is obvious that we like all class
projects and homework assignments to be completed within a semester.
Services that were offered during the semester may no longer be
available after the semester is over and could adversely effect your
planing. It will be in the students responsibility to identify such
services and provide alternatives if they become unavailable. We try
hard to avoid this but we can not guarantee it.

Furthermore, once an incomplete is requested, you will have 10 month to
complete it. We will need 2 month to grade. No grading will be conducted
over breaks. This may effect those that require student loans. Please
plan ahead.

The incomplete request needs to be off the following format in piazza:

    Subject: 
        INCOMPLETE REQUEST: HID000: Lastname, Firstname

    Body:
        Firstname: TBD
        Lastname: TBD
        HID: TBD
        Semester: TBD
        Course: TBD
        Online: yes/no

        URL notebook: TBD    
        URL assignment1:
        URL assignment2: TBD
        ....
        URL paper1: TBD
        URL project: TBD

        URL other1: TBD

Please make sure that the links ar e clickable in piazza. Also as
classes have different assignments, make sure to include whatever is
relevant for that class and add the appropriate artifacts.

Here is the process for how to deal with incomplets at IU are
documented:

* <http://registrar.indiana.edu/grades/grade-values/grade-of-incomplete.shtml>
Piazza is FERPA compliant:

* <https://piazza.com/legal/ferpa>
Waitlist
--------

The waitlist contains students that are unable to enroll in a section of
a course. Students choose to add themselves to the waitlist. They are
not automatically added, but choose to do so intentionally based on the
status of the course. There are two reasons for students to be on the
waitlist. The first, and primary, reason is that the class is already at
the scheduled, maximum capacity. Since there are no seats available, the
student can elect to add themselves to the waitlist. The second reason
is that the students' own schedule has a time conflict. This occurs when
they are trying to enroll in a class that overlaps with the time of a
class they are already enrolled in.

Students are moved from the waitlist to the regular section during a
daily batch process, and not in real time. The process is not in
realtime because the registrar receives many requests to increase
capacity, decrease capacity, and change rooms. If the process were real
time there would be a catastrophe of conflicts.

Students are moved from the waitlist in chronological order that they
added themselves to the waitlist. If you are still on the waitlist there
are no spaces free, the batch process has not run for the day, or the
student in question has a schedule conflict.

Faculty are not able to selectively choose students from the waitlist.

How long does the waitlist process stay active?: The automated
processing of the waitlist ends on Thursday of the first week of class
At this time the waitlist will no longer be processed. As the
residential class starts on Friday, this may cause issues. Either talk
to the department on Thursday or show up on Friday. Most likely there
will be spaces left. Students on the waitlist at that time will remain
on the waitlist, but remain there until the student decides to change
their registration. Students may not do that, because they get assessed
a change schedule fee.

Students tell me they still want to enroll after the first week of
classes. How do they do this?

Beginning Monday, after the first week of class students begin to use
the eAdd process to do a late addition of the course. The request is
routed to the professor of record on an eDoc and the faculty will be
notified via email. Faculty can deny or approve based on whatever
criteria they wish to apply. If the faculty member approves, the eDoc is
electronically forwarded to the Academic Operations office and we will
approve the late add **if the room capacity** allows the addition,
otherwise we must deny the addition because of fire marshal regulations.
Many times, there are seats in a classroom/discussion/lab, but because
other students have not *officially* dropped, enrollment is still at
capacity.

After everything, a student that was unable to enroll in the class
attended all year and completed all course work as if they had enrolled.
Can the student get credit and can I give the student a grade?

Yes. There is a provision for a late registration - contact our office
if this occurs. Students will be assessed a tuition fee at the time of
late or retroactive registration.

Registration
------------

The Executive Associate Dean for Academic Affairs requires starting
Spring 2018 that students that are not officially enrolled, can not
register at the end of the class if they in-officially took the class.
Please make sure that within the first month you have enrolled. If we do
not see in CANVAS, you are not in the class. In case you are on a
waitlist it is your responsibility to work with the administration after
the waitlist is over to be added to the class by getting permission from
the School.

Auditing the class
------------------

We no longer allow students to audit E222, I524, E516, and E616. The
motivation to not offer these classes for auditing are:

-   Seating in the lecture room is limited and we want foster students
    that enroll full time first.

-   The best way to take the class is to conduct a project. As this can
    not be achieved without taking the class full time and as auditing
    the class does not provide the full value of the class, e.g. not
    more than 10% of the class. Hence, we do not think it is useful to
    audit the class.

-   Accounts and services have to be set up and require considerable
    resources that are not accessible to students that audit the class.

Resource restrictions
---------------------

-   It is not allowed to use our services for profit (e.g. just
    enrolling in the class to use our clouds).

-   In case of abuse of available compute time on our clouds the student
    is aware that we will terminate the computer account on our clouds
    and the student may have to conduct the project on a public cloud or
    his own computer under own cost. There will be no guarantee that
    cloud services we offer will be available after the semester is
    over. Projects can be conducted as part of the class that do not
    require access to the cloud.

Plagiarism
----------

In the first week of class you will need to read the information about
plagiarism. If there are any questions about plagiarism we require you
to take a course offered from the IU educational department.

If we find cheating or plagiarism, your assignment will be receiving an
*F*. This especially includes copying text without proper attribution.
In addition you will be receiving an *F* for the appropriate time for
the discussion points an assignment was issued, e.g. If a paper duration
assignment is 4 weeks, you get for these four weeks no discussion
points, meaning an *F*. Furthermore, we will follow IU policy and report
your case to the dean of students who may elect to exspell you form the
university. Please understand that it is your doing and the instructors
have no choice as to follow university policies. Thus, please do not
blame the instructors for your actions. Excuses such as "I missed the
lecture on plagiarism", "I forgot to include the original reference as I
ran out of time", "I did not understand what plagiarism is" do not count
obviously as we explicitly make the policies clear. This applies to all
material prepared for class including assignments, exercises, code,
tutorials, papers, and projects. If there is no time, do not submit and
instead of an F ask for an incomplete. In fact if you know you have
plagiarized, do not even have us review your paper.

For more information on this topic please see:

* <https://studentaffairs.indiana.edu/student-conduct/misconduct-charges/academic-misconduct.shtml>
