Introduction
============

Internet of Things is one of the driving forces in the modernisation of
todays world. It is based on connecting *things* to the internet to
create a more aware world that can be interfaced with. This not only
includes us humans, but any *thing* that can interact with other things.
It is clear that such a vision of interconnected devices will result in
billions of devices to communicate with each other. Some of them may
only communicate small number of items, while others will communicate a
large amount. Analysis of this data is dependent on the capability of
the *thing*. If it is to small the analysis can be conducted on a remote
server or cloud while information to act are fead back from the device.
In other cases the device may be completely autonomous and does not
require any interaction. Yet in other cases the collaborative
information gathered from such devices is used to derive decissions and
actions.

Within this section we are trying to provide you with a small glimpse
into how IoT devices function and can be utilized on small projects.
Ideally if the class has all such a device we could even attempt to
build a cloud based service that collects and redistributes the data.

To keep things simple we are not providing a general introduction in
IoT. For that we offer other classes. However, we will introduce you to
two different devices. These are

-   esp8266

-   Raspberry Pi

The reasons we chose them is that

1.  they are cheap,

2.  we can program both in python allowing us to use a single
    programming langauage for all projects and assignments, and

3.  they are sufficiently powerful and we can conduct real projects with
    them beyond toy projects.

4.  the devices, especially the Raspberry PI can be used to also learn
    Linux in case you do not have access to a linux computer. Please
    note however the raspberry will have memory and space limitations
    that you need to deal with.

Projects that you can do to test the devices are

esp8266 (easy-moderate, small memory):

1.  a LED blinker

2.  a dendrite

3.  a robot fish

4.  a fish swarm

5.  a robot swarm

6.  an activity of your desire

Raspberry Pi (easy-moderate, 32GB space limitation):

1.  a LED blinker

2.  a robot car

3.  a robot car with camera

4.  a termerature service

5.  a docker cluster

Crazyflie 2.0 (difficult):

1.  programming a drone

2.  programming a drone swarm

Please note that for those at IU we do have a Lab in which you can use
some of the devices pointed out here. You can arrange for accessing the
infrastructure or you simply can buy it for yourself.

We have a hardware page that summarizes what you need. In case you want
to work on a swarm, we do have positioning sensors that simplify that
task.

In general we think that these platforms provide a wonderful
introduction into IoT and where it will move to. Such platforms were
just a decade ago not powerful enough or too expensive. However today
the provide a serious platform for developers. Sensors are available
easily as most Android comparible sensors can be used.

Before we jump right into programming the devices, we like to point out
that we dod not chose to use Arduinos, as their price advantage is no
longer valid. We also find that esp8266 and Raspberry can interface with
most sensors. Having the ability to easily use WiFi however is our
primary reason for using them. Furthermore being able to attach a camera
to the Raspberry is just superb. Image analysis will be one of the near
term future drivers for big data.
