# Login Server

While interacting with clusters we need a computer from which we can
log into the cluster. Such a computer could be your Laptop hosting OSX
or Windows10 as an operating sytsem.

## OSX

OSX is a very good OS to conduct our work. We have done A lot of
activities on OSX and know it works. To make thinks more UNIX like we
recommend that you use `homebrew`.

## Windows 10

Please note that Windows 10 home edition does not support many of the
advanced system and thus, if you like to use Windows 10, we recommend
that you either purchase a full version of Windows 10 and upgrade to
it, or you obtain the educational version. Please make sure that you
do a backup of all your data before you start. The educational version
of Windows is freely available to students from amny eductaional
institutions.

Furthermore, Microsoft has recently made significant progess in
supporting Linux on their OS. We recommend that you install it and
use. Alternatively we recommend that you use `gitbash` to have a linux
like experience. Please inform yourself about gitbash and install it.


## Older Version of Windows

Older versions of Windows are not supported and if you take one of our
classes, we will not support you or answer any questions. We know that
these version do not work for mor advanced features that cloud
programs rely on and thus we recommend you update your OS.

## Raspbery PI

A very good option is to use a Raspberry PI as login server. Naturally
you may not be able to run LaTeX on it, but it will be sufficient for
learning python, shell scripting and interacting with the cluster.
Due to it's cheap price (typically <$40 for the board, <$5 for a HDMI
cable, and $5 for a power plug (never use your Laptop as power source
as it may damage your laptop), you can get started for about $50. As
you may want to protect you PI, you can also get a cheap case for
about $8. When it comes to the powersuppliy, make sure to buy one that
has a power switch included. This helps when rebooting.


